LAB EVALUATION-- To design a system for home security systems, such that whenever someone approaches the gate, the LED starts blinking 
once every 100 ms.

THEORY: 

PIR sensors allow you to sense motion, almost always used to detect whether a human has moved in or out of the sensors range. 
They are small, inexpensive, low-power, easy to use and don't wear out. For that reason they are commonly found in appliances
and gadgets used in homes or businesses. They are
often referred to as PIR, "Passive Infrared", "Pyroelectric", or "IR motion" sensors.
As per the circuit diagram, we have made a voltage divider circuit using PIR SENSOR and 10k resistor. The voltage divider output
is feed to the analog pin of the Arduino. The analog Pin senses the voltage and gives some analog value to Arduino. 
The analog value changes according to the resistance of
PIR SENSOR.
So, as the Motion is detected in PIR sensor the resistance of it get decreased and hence the voltage value increase.


LEARNING AND OBSERVATIONS:

As per the Arduino code, if the analog value falls below 300 we consider it as dark and the light turns ON. If the value comes above 400 
we consider it as bright and the light starts blinking at 100ms.


PROBLEMS AND TROUBLESHOOTING: 

You should take care whether the board in the arduino\uno or not and also selection of port in tools. This is the main problem where we
get confusion 

PRECAUTIONS: 
While installing we should know some following popints:
1. Connect Vcc pin of P.I.R sensor to positive terminal of Arduino (5V).
2. Connect Gnd pin of P.I.R sensor to any ground pin of Arduino.
3. Connect out pin of P.I.R sensor to Pin no. A0 of Arduino.
4. Connect Positive terminal (Longer Lead) Of L.E.D To Arduino Pin no. 13.
5. Connect Negative terminal (Shorter Lead) Of L.E.D To Any Ground Pin.
6. Install the wires properly in both bread board and arduino board.  

LEARNING OUTCOMES: 
With this experiment we have learned that how LED start blinkng when motion is detected in PIR sensor.
